---
layout: post
title:      "Creativity and Code : The Journey Starts Here "
date:       2018-03-24 05:58:47 -0400
permalink:  creativity_and_code_the_journey_starts_here
---


I vividily remember sitting trying to learn to type in "computer class" in middle school, head held high by necessity as the teacher raised my chin up with an outstretched ruler to make sure I didn't look down at the keyboard and cheat. I couldn't anyway. It was covered in a neon orange rubbery cheater proofing device. I remember going over some boolean search operators and getting marks off for using at most six to seven of my fingers, a haphazard style that I unfortunately continue  to this day. Not much stuck with me from that class. I mean, we were told we could poke around the "world wide internet" for some ideas for papers or whatever, but we could only cite books. If it wasn't printed out in the library, it was good for nothing. Seemed like computer class was a waste of time. Even though, as the computer class instructor took great pains to remind us, we "had at our very fingertips, the greatest search engine the world had ever seen: Alta Vista."

It was only after my teachers complained that I could no longer submit hand written papers that my family got a computer for the home. Not surprisingly, I really didn't really think much of technology when I was younger. Everyone at my highschool seemed to be gearing up their lives to do one of three things: medical school, law school, or business/finance. I bought into the whole thing. Technology was more of a supporting actor. Especially computing and programming. A realm best left to the I.T. folks, it was a small bit player in a bigger world of more serious pursuits. It was certainly not an end in itself. Or the transformative force of communication and creation I see it as today. 

I ended up studying Analytic Philosophy and European Intellectual History in college and going to Law School. I worked in strategic business planning and seemed to be dead set on seguing from law into business, maybe even going for an MBA. I kind of noticed the use of smartphones and social media beginning to, well, shape the fabric of society and all of that. But it was more of a sideshow. Law and Finance were the important stuff: the solemn, reverant, inner workings of society. They glimmered with prestige and dripped with gravitas. That's what life was about. I was pretty darn sure at least. 

Then something happened. I'm still trying to figure it out, though I have a slightly better idea now than I did when I inexplicably packed up my Honda Civic and drove from New York to LA and started an indie publishing venture with my girlfriend. 

My work in indie e-publishing necessitated some familiarity with basic HTML for e-book formatting. Many of the people I knew in the field were learning some basic coding to support their efforts in the online advertising/social media marketing aspect of the field. In the latter half of 2015, my girlfriend gifted me some Udemy web developer classes and I started to intermittently work through very basic JS, HTML, CSS, Node, etc. 
        
After Amazon changed the terms of author payout for Kindle Unlimited Borrows, many indie authors lost 90% of their revenue. I moved out of Venice and into Orange County and worked on trying to recalibrate our business model while simultaneously working in business development for a premium tutoring agency and taking on several students of my own. I also began taking Mixology and First Order Sommelier classes in West Hollywood while assisting, at the time, one of the top rated cocktail chef in L.A., with events on weekends. I met him at a Pivotal Labs' speaker series event in Santa Monica where he spoke about his transition from nightlife marketing to spearheading the craft cocktail movement in LA and foraging across the world for new ingredients and new ideas.

Learning programming took a back seat through all of this, until my girlfriend's brother told me about his experience at the Flat Iron School in NYC. I then heard from a girl from my class in high school who had quit her job in finance, worked a year as a tutor in Singapore, and gone through a coding bootcamp program in NYC as well. I realized that programming wasn't just for the kids who majored in CS in college. I also began to see how it could help me collaborate with the same type of passionate and innovative people I worked with before in LA and Orange County. Far from being the province of math nerds and geniuses who began coding in diapers, it was simply a new set of mediums with massive potential. It was a new language with which to create and communicate. It was what you made of it. It was as disruptive as the invention of the printing press and the mass dissemination of the written word. I didn't want to be left behind. 

I went from a traditional education and professional career track through 3 years of wide-ranging challenges, experiences, and encounters, to sitting in this chair reflecting on the decision to commit my life to learning to code. 

At some point along the blindly followed path of a somewhat redundant professional career, I realized I was unlikely to ever reach any kind of fulfillment or deeper sense of success. I'd always been exhilarated by ideas, passionate people, and all encompassing projects that gave life a sense of urgency. Maybe I thought studying law or working in business consuting would immerse me in that kind of world. It didn't. In fact, it took the drive across the country, starting something new in a place I'd never even visited before to get me off the beaten path. 

 I want to study code because I want to continue to work with individuals like the mixologist in LA, or the indie writers whose stories I had the pleasure of helping bring to life, or the founder of the tutoring company in Orange County who took on Kaplan and Princeton Review. While I have my own ideas, interests, and passions, I'm absolutely humbled by the projects others are working on. I want to learn from them, be involved in some way, and coding gives me another useful tool so I can be of use. 

It might seem like I"m starting from scratch, years behind, re-inventing the wheel by learning something new so late in the game. But I've never felt more like I'm heading in the right direction. Dedication to your craft as a developer, unlike with traditional careers like law, doesn't mean pigeonholing yourself. It actually opens up new opportunities in new areas of interest and innovation. As a self-starter and extremely curious person, I'm ready for a lifetime of learning that only starts at bootcamp. I'm excited to jumpstart the journey.  

